---
layout: post
title:  "Update - Change of Plans"
date:   2025-03-12
author: Alex
categories: emap
dev_blog: true
---

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;To reiterate the general outline of our project: We will have some array of force sensors attached on our paddles, which will be connected with wires to a wearable wrist component. The wrist component will be our main PCB with the ESP32 microcontroller, which will be communicating wirelessly with our main laptop. All the backend work will be done on the laptop. 

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;We determined that an actual computer/laptop will accomplish the same goals at a much better efficiency and quality than using the control box supported by the STM microcontroller. We’ve been thinking about our project a lot more from a users perspective, and we’re considering some changes to our design. We've decided on getting rid of the control box, and instead adding an extra paddle, and handling a much more complex program on the user's computer. Using the control box limits us to a very basic program for simply measuring the force of a kick. Switching to multiple paddles and a computer program instead would allow a significantly wider range of use, such as having multiple kickers, multiplayer competitions, training regimens, etc. We know it’s a significant change, but we think it would be significantly more useful for the martial artists, as well as more interesting for us to build since we would be the ones actually using them. We are waiting for TA Jason's approval. 